---
title: 18.3 Listeners
---

# 18.3 Listeners

  
Most of the listeners perform several roles in addition to "listening"
to the test results.
They also provide means to view, save, and read saved test results.Note that Listeners are processed at the end of the scope in which they are found.

The saving and reading of test results is generic.  The various
listeners have a panel whereby one can specify the file to
which the results will be written (or read from).
By default, the results are stored as XML
files, typically with a "`.jtl`" extension.
Storing as CSV is the most efficient option, but is less detailed than XML (the other available option).

**Listeners do *not* process sample data in CLI mode, but the raw data will be saved if an output
file has been configured.**
In order to analyse the data generated by a CLI run, you need to load the file into the appropriate
Listener.

:::note
To read existing results and display them, use the file panel Browse button to open the file.
:::

If you want to clear any current data before loading a new file, use the menu item

  Run
  Clear
  
    CtrlShiftE
  

or

  Run
  Clear All
  
    CtrlE
  

before loading the file.

Results can be read from XML or CSV format files.
When reading from CSV results files, the header (if present) is used to determine which fields are present.
**In order to interpret a header-less CSV file correctly, the appropriate properties must be set in `jmeter.properties`.**

XML files written by JMeter have version 1.0 declared in header while actual file is serialized with 1.1 rules.
(This is done for historical compatibility reasons; see 59973 and 58679)
This causes strict XML parsers to fail. Consider using non-strict XML parsers to read JTL files.

:::note
The file name can contain function and/or variable references.
However variable references do not work in client-server mode (functions work OK).
This is because the file is created on the client, and the client does not run the test locally so does not set up variables.
:::

**Listeners can use a lot of memory if there are a lot of samples.**
Most of the listeners currently keep a copy of every sample in their scope, apart from:

- Simple Data Writer
- BeanShell/JSR223 Listener
- Mailer Visualizer
- Summary Report

The following Listeners no longer need to keep copies of every single sample.
Instead, samples with the same elapsed time are aggregated.
Less memory is now needed, especially if most samples only take a second or two at most.

- Aggregate Report
- Aggregate Graph

To minimise the amount of memory needed, use the Simple Data Writer, and use the CSV format.

:::note
JMeter variables can be saved to the output files.
This can only be specified using a property.
See the [Listener Sample Variables](listeners.html#sample_variables) for details
:::

For full details on setting up the default items to be saved
see the [Listener Default Configuration](listeners.html#defaults) documentation.
For details of the contents of the output files,
see the [CSV log](listeners.html#csvlogformat) format or
the [XML log](listeners.html#xmlformat2.1) format.

:::note
The entries in `jmeter.properties` are used to define the defaults;
these can be overridden for individual listeners by using the Configure button,
as shown below.
The settings in `jmeter.properties` also apply to the listener that is added
by using the `-l` command-line flag.
:::

The figure below shows an example of the result file configuration panel


### Properties

| Property | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Filename | No | Name of the file containing sample results.         The file name can be specified using either a relative or an absolute path name.         Relative paths are resolved relative to the current working directory (which defaults to the `bin/` directory).         JMeter also support paths relative to the directory containing the current test plan (JMX file).         If the path name begins with "`~/`" (or whatever is in the `jmeter.save.saveservice.base_prefix` JMeter property),         then the path is assumed to be relative to the JMX file location. |
| Browse … | No | File Browse Button |
| Errors | No | Select this to write/read only results with errors |
| Successes | No | Select this to write/read only results without errors.         If neither `Errors` nor `Successes` is selected, then all results are processed. |
| Configure | No | Configure Button, see below |

