---
title: Version 3.1
---

# Version 3.1

Summary

- [New and Noteworthy](#New and Noteworthy)

- [Incompatible changes](#Incompatible changes)

- [Bug fixes](#Bug fixes)

- [Improvements](#Improvements)

- [Non-functional changes](#Non-functional changes)

- [Known problems and workarounds](#Known problems and workarounds)

- [Thanks](#Thanks)

### New and Noteworthy

### Improve Report/Dashboard

The Dashboard has been improved with 3 new graphs and 1 summary table:

    - Connect Time over Time graph : 

    - Response Time Percentiles Over Time (successful responses) graph : 

    - Response Time Overview graph : 

    - Top 5 errors by Sampler table : 

    - More details on errors in Errors table

    - Average response time added to Statistics table : 

    - Active Threads table now stacks threads : 

### New Metrics

A new `sent_bytes` metric has been introduced which reports the bytes sent to server.
Another metric `connect_time` has been enabled by default in this version

### Handling Big responses

JMeter is now able to handle in terms of metrics responses bigger than 2GB, limit has been increased to 9223372 TB.
To handle such big responses, it can also now truncate part of the response to avoid overflooding memory. See `httpsampler.max_bytes_to_store_per_request` property.

### New `__groovy` function

Introduce a new function `__groovy` that enables Groovy functions. This can be handy, as JavaScript can be quite slow (same for BeanShell), when used in highly concurrent test plans.

### Use Groovy as default for JSR-223 elements

Groovy is now set as the default language for JSR-223 elements. If you want to use another of the supported language, you have to make an explicit choice.

By default `Cache compiled script if available` is not checked by default although we advise you to check it and ensure you don't use `${varName}` syntax to access JMeter variables but `vars.get("varName")` instead.

### Formatted HTML source view in Results Tree View

The HTML source code in the Results Tree View can now be viewed formatted. This is extremely useful, if the code of the webpage has been stripped of all superfluous whitespace.

New formatted HTML source view

### Ability to update all timers in Test plan with a new property

A new property `timer.factor=1.0f` has been introduced which allows you to multiply pause times computed by Gaussian, Uniform and Poisson Timers by it.
This allows you to update Think Times from one place and let you gain productivity.

Core improvements

- Various GUI and UX fixes

- Memory usage improvements

- JDBC Request is now able to return Blob/Clob and computes latency and connect time

- CSS Parsing introduced in 3.0 has been optimized by introduction of a parsing cache

- HTTP Request is now able to handle body in GET request, this is useful for Elastic Search requests for example.

Documentation improvements

- Documentation review and improvements for easier startup

- New [properties reference](usermanual/properties_reference.html) documentation section

Sample category -->
Sample title -->
 -->

### Incompatible changes

    - A cache for CSS Parsing of URLs has been introduced in this version, it is enabled by default. It is controlled by property `css.parser.cache.size`. It can be disabled by setting its value to `0`. See [Bug 59885](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=59885)

    - ThroughputController defaults have changed. Now defaults are Percent Executions which is global and no more per user. See [Bug 60023](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=60023)

    - Since version 3.1, HTML report ignores empty `Transaction Controller` (possibly generated by `If Controller` or `Throughput Controller`) when computing metrics. This provides more accurate metrics

    - Since version 3.1, Summariser ignores SampleResults generated by `Transaction Controller` when computing the live statistics, see [Bug 60109](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=60109)

    - Since version 3.1, when using Stripped modes (by default `StrippedBatch` is used), response will be stripped also for failing SampleResults, you can revert this to previous behaviour by setting `sample_sender_strip_also_on_error=false` in `user.properties`, see [Bug 60137](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=60137)

    - Since version 3.1, `jmeter.save.saveservice.connect_time` property value is `true`, meaning CSV file for results will contain an additional column containing connection time, see [Bug 60106](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=60106)

    - Since version 3.1, Random Timer subclasses (Gaussian Random Timer, Uniform Random Timer and Poisson Random Timer) implement interface `[org.apache.jmeter.timers.ModifiableTimer](./api/org/apache/jmeter/timers/ModifiableTimer.html)`

    - Since version 3.1, if you don't select any language in JSR223 Test Elements, Apache Groovy language will be used. See [Bug 59945](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=59945)

    - Since version 3.1, CSV DataSet now trims variable names to avoid issues due to spaces between variables names when configuring CSV DataSet. This should not have any impact for you unless you use space at the beginning or end of your variable names. See [Bug 60221](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=60221)

    - Since version 3.1, HTTP Request is able when using HttpClient4 (default) implementation to handle responses bigger than `2147483647` Bytes, that is 2GB. To allow this two properties have been introduced:
    
        - `httpsampler.max_bytes_to_store_per_request` (defaults to 10MB) will control what is held in memory. By default JMeter will only keep in memory the first 10MB of a response. If you have responses larger than this value and use assertions that are after the first 10MB, then you must increase this value

        - `httpsampler.max_buffer_size` will control the buffer used to read the data. Previously JMeter used a buffer equal to Content-Length header which could lead to failures and make JMeter less resistant to faulty applications, but note this may impact response times and give slightly different results
         than previous versions if your application returned a Content-Length header higher than current default value (65KB) 

    

    See [Bug 53039](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=53039)

### Deprecated and removed elements or functions

These elements do not appear anymore in the menu, if you need them modify `not_in_menu` property. The JMeter team advises not to use them anymore and migrate to their replacement.

    - 60222Remove deprecated elements Distribution Graph, Spline Visualizer

    - 60224Deprecate `[Monitor Results](./usermanual/component_reference.html#Monitor_Results_(DEPRECATED))` listener. It will be dropped in next version.

    - 60323Deprecate BSF Elements (Use JSR223 Elements instead). They will probably be dropped in N+2 version. The following elements are deprecated:
        
            - `[BSF Sampler](./usermanual/component_reference.html#BSF_Sampler_(DEPRECATED))`

            - `[BSF Listener](./usermanual/component_reference.html#BSF_Listener_(DEPRECATED))`

            - `[BSF Assertion](./usermanual/component_reference.html#BSF_Assertion_(DEPRECATED))`

            - `[BSF Timer](./usermanual/component_reference.html#BSF_Timer_(DEPRECATED))`

            - `[BSF PreProcessor](./usermanual/component_reference.html#BSF_PreProcessor_(DEPRECATED))`

            - `[BSF PostProcessor](./usermanual/component_reference.html#BSF_PostProcessor_(DEPRECATED))`

        

    

    - 60225Drop deprecated `__jexl` function, jexl support in BSF and dependency on `commons-jexl-1.1.jar`. This function can be easily replaced with `[__jexl3](./usermanual/functions.html#__jexl3)` function

    - 60268Drop org.apache.jmeter.gui.action.Analyze and deprecate org.apache.jmeter.reporters.FileReporter (will be removed in next version)

### Improvements

### HTTP Samplers and Test Script Recorder

    - 59882Reduce memory allocations for better throughput. Contributed by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com) through [PR #217](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/217) and [PR #228](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/228)

    - 59885Optimize css parsing for embedded resources download by introducing a cache. Contributed by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com) through [PR #219](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/219)

    - 60092View Result Tree: Add shortened version of the PUT body to sampler result.

    - 60229Add a new metric : sent_bytes. Implemented by Philippe Mouawad (p.mouawad at ubik-ingenierie.com) and contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 53039HTTP Request : Be able to handle responses which size exceeds `2147483647` bytes (that is 2GB)

    - 60265HTTP Request : In Files Upload Tab you cannot resize columns

    - 60318Ignore CSS warnings when parsing with ph-css library.

    - 60358Http Request : Allow sending Body Data for HTTP GET request

### Other samplers

    - [PR #211](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/211)Differentiate the timing for JDBC Sampler. Use latency and connect time. Contributed by Thomas Peyrard (thomas.peyrard at murex.com)

    - 59620Fix button action in "JMS Publisher &rarr; Random File from folder specified below" to allow to select a directory

    - 60066Handle CLOBs and BLOBs and limit them if necessary when storing them in result sampler.

### Controllers

    - 59351Improve log/error/message for IncludeController. Partly contributed by Antonio Gomes Rodrigues (ra0077 at gmail.com)

    - 60023ThroughputController : Make "Percent Executions" and global the default values. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60082Validation mode : Be able to force Throughput Controller to run as if it was set to 100%

    - 59349Trim spaces in input filename in IncludeController.

    - 60081Interleave Controller : Add an option to alternate across threads

### Listeners

    - 59953GraphiteBackendListener : Add Average metric. Partly contributed by Maxime Chassagneux (maxime.chassagneux at gmail.com)

    - 59975View Results Tree : Text renderer annoyingly scrolls down when content is bulky. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60109Summariser : Make it ignore TC generated SampleResult in its summary computations

    - 59948Add a formatted and sane HTML source code render to View Results Tree

    - 60252Add sent kbytes/s to Aggregate Report and Summary report

    - 60267UX : In View Results Tree it should be possible to close the Configure popup by typing escape. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

### Timers, Assertions, Config, Pre- &amp; Post-Processors

    - 59845Log messages about JSON Path mismatches at `debug` level instead of `error`.

    - [PR #212](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/212)Allow multiple selection and delete in HTTP Authorization Manager. Based on a patch by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

    - 59816[PR #213](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/213)Allow multiple selection and delete in HTTP Header Manager. Based on a patch by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

    - 59967CSS/JQuery Extractor : Allow empty default value. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 59974Response Assertion : Add button "`Add from clipboard`". Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60050CSV Data Set : Make it clear in the logs when a thread will exit due to this configuration

    - 59962Cache Manager does not update expires date when response code is `304`.

    - 60018Timer : Add a factor to apply on pauses. Partly based on a patch by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60203Use more available space for textarea in XPath Assertion.

    - 60220Rename JSON Path Post Processor to JSON Extractor

    - 60221CSV DataSet : trim variable names

    - 59329Trim spaces in input filename in CSVDataSet.

### Functions

    - 59963New function `__RandomFromMultipleVars`: Ability to compute a random value from values of one or more variables. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 59991New function `__groovy` to evaluate Groovy Script. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

### I18N

    - [PR #214](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/214)Add spanish translation for delayed starting of threads. Contributed by Asier Lostalé (asier.lostale at openbravo.com).

    - 60348Change chinese translation for `Save as`. Contributed by XMeter (support at xmeter.net).

### Report / Dashboard

    - 59954Web Report/Dashboard : Add average metric

    - 59956Web Report / Dashboard : Add ability to generate a graph for a range of data

    - 60065Report / Dashboard : Improve Dashboard Error Summary by adding response message to "Type of error". Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60079Report / Dashboard : Add a new "Response Time Overview" graph

    - 60080Report / Dashboard : Add a new "Connect Time Over Time " graph. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60091Report / Dashboard : Have a new report containing min/max and percentiles graphs.

    - 60108Report / Dashboard : In Requests Summary rounding is too aggressive

    - 60098Report / Dashboard : Reduce default value for "`jmeter.reportgenerator.statistic_window`" to reduce memory impact

    - 60115Add date format property for start/end date filter into Report generator

    - 60171Report / Dashboard : Active Threads Over Time should stack lines to give the total amount of threads running

    - 60250Report / Dashboard : Need to Add Sent KB/s in Statistics Report of HTML Dashboard

    - 60287Report / Dashboard : Have a new Top5 Errors by sampler table in Dashboard. Implemented by Philippe Mouawad (p.mouawad at ubik-ingenierie.com) and contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

### General

    - 59803Use `isValid()` method from JDBC driver, if no `validationQuery`
    is given in JDBC Connection Configuration.

    - 57493Create a documentation page for properties

    - 59924The log level of *XXX* package is set to `DEBUG` if `log_level.*XXXX*` property value contains spaces, same for `__log` function

    - 59777Extract SLF4J binding into its own jar and make it a JMeter lib.
    If you get a warning about multiple SLF4J bindings on startup. Remove either the Apache JMeter provided binding
          `lib/ApacheJMeter_slf4j_logkit.jar`, or all of the other reported bindings.
          For more information you can have a look at [SLF4Js own info page.](http://www.slf4j.org/codes.html#multiple_bindings)
    

    - 60085Remove cache for prepared statements, as it didn't work with the current JDBC pool implementation and current JDBC drivers should support caching of prepared statements themselves.

    - 60137In Distributed testing when using StrippedXXXX modes strip response also on error

    - 60106Settings defaults : Switch "`jmeter.save.saveservice.connect_time`" to true (after 3.0)

    - [PR #229](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/229) tiny memory allocation improvements. Contributed by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

    - 59945For all JSR223 elements, if script language has not been chosen on the UI, the script will be interpreted as a groovy script.

    - 60266Usability/ UX : It should not be possible to close/exit/Revert/Load/Load a recent project or create from template a JMeter plan or open a new one if a test is running

    - 57305Remove dependency of `ProxyControl` on `GuiPackage`. Based on patches by jarek102 (jarek102 at gmail.com) and Wyatt Epp (wyatt.epp at gmail.com)

### Non-functional changes

    - Updated to jsoup-1.10.1 (from 1.8.3)

    - Updated to ph-css 4.1.6 (from 4.1.4)

    - Updated to tika-core and tika-parsers 1.14 (from 1.12)

    - Updated to commons-io 2.5 (from 2.4)

    - Updated to commons-lang3 3.5 (from 3.4)

    - Updated to commons-net 3.5 (from 3.4)

    - Updated to groovy 2.4.7 (from 2.4.6)

    - Updated to httpcore 4.4.5 (from 4.4.4)

    - Updated to slf4j-api 1.7.21 (from 1.7.13)

    - Updated to rsyntaxtextarea-2.6.0 (from 2.5.8)

    - Updated to xstream 1.4.9 (from 1.4.8)

    - Updated to jodd 3.7.1 (from 3.6.7.jar)

    - Updated to xmlgraphics-commons 2.1 (from 2.0.1)

    - [PR #215](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/215)Reduce duplicated code by using the newly added method `GuiUtils#cancelEditing`.
    Contributed by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

    - [PR #218](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/218)Misc cleanup. Contributed by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

    - [PR #216](https://github.com/apache/jmeter/pull/216)Re-use pattern when possible. Contributed by Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

    - 60364Document Test Coverage. Contributed by Thomas Schapitz (ts-nospam12 at online.de)

 

### Bug fixes

### HTTP Samplers and Test Script Recorder

    - 58888HTTP(S) Test Script Recorder (ProxyControl) does not add TestElement's returned by `SamplerCreator#createChildren()`

    - 59902Https handshake failure when setting `httpclient.socket.https.cps` property

    - 60084JMeter 3.0 embedded resource URL is silently encoded

    - 60376Http Test Script Recorder : If deflate is used by server then recording may break application

 

### Other Samplers

    - 59113JDBC Connection Configuration : Transaction Isolation level not correctly set if constant used instead of numerical

### Controllers

    - 60361ModuleController : If a Test plan contains a Module Controller which references an unexistant Controller, JMeter in GUI mode will not stop

### Listeners

    - 59712Display original query in RequestView when decoding fails. Based on a patch by
         Teemu Vesala (teemu.vesala at qentinel.com)

    - 60278Since 2.13 (and [Bug 57514](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=57514)), Aggregate Graph, Summary Report and Aggregate Report lost precision in the Error, Rate and Bandwidth values saved in the saved file csv

    - 60360View Result Tree : Request Tab does not show body of a DELETE request

### Timers, Assertions, Config, Pre- &amp; Post-Processors

    - 59964JSR223 Test Element : Cache compiled script if available is not correctly reset. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 59609Format extracted JSON Objects in JSON Post Processor correctly as JSON.

    - 60332View Results Tree : With Windows LAF, JSON Extractor does not show JSON Path Expression and Result panel

### Functions

### I18N

### General

    - 59400Get rid of UnmarshalException on stopping when `-X` option is used.

    - 59607JMeter crashes when reading large test plan (greater than 2GB). Based on fix by Felix Draxler (felix.draxler at sap.com)

    - 59621Error count in report dashboard is one off.

    - 59657Only set font in JSyntaxTextArea, when property `jsyntaxtextarea.font.family` is set.

    - 59720Batch test file comparisons fail on Windows as XML files are generated as EOL=LF

    - Code cleanups. Patches by Graham Russell (graham at ham1.co.uk)

    - 59722Use StandardCharsets to reduce the possibility of misspelling Charset names.

    - 59723Use `jmeter.properties` for testing whenever possible

    - 59726Unit test to check that CSV header text and sample format don't change unexpectedly

    - 59889Change encoding to UTF-8 in reports for dashboard.

    - 60053In Non GUI mode, a Stacktrace is shown at end of test while report is being generated

    - 60049When using Timers with high delays or Constant Throughput Timer with low throughput, Scheduler may take a lot of time to exit, same for Shutdown test 

    - 60089Report / Dashboard : Bytes throughput Over Time has reversed Sent and Received bytes. Contributed by Ubik Load Pack (support at ubikloadpack.com)

    - 60090Report / Dashboard : Empty Transaction Controller should not count in metrics

    - 60103Report / Dashboard : Requests summary includes Transaction Controller leading to wrong percentage

    - 60105Report / Dashboard : Report requires Transaction Controller "`generate parent sample`" option to be checked, fix related issues

    - 60107Report / Dashboard : In StatisticSummary, TransactionController SampleResult makes Total line wrong

    - 60110Report / Dashboard : In Response Time Percentiles, slider is useless

    - 60135Report / Dashboard : Active Threads Over Time should be in OverTime section

    - 60125Report / Dashboard : Dashboard cannot be generated if the default delimiter is `\t`. Based on a report from Tamas Szabadi (tamas.szabadi at rightside.co)

    - 59439Report / Dashboard : AbstractOverTimeGraphConsumer.createGroupInfos() should be abstract

    - 59918Ant generated HTML report is broken (extras folder)

    - 60295JSON Extractor doesn't index array elements when only one element is found. Based on a patch by Roberto Braga (roberto.braga at sociale.it)

    - 60299Thread Group with Scheduler : Weird behaviour when End-Time is in the past

 

### Thanks

We thank all contributors mentioned in bug and improvement sections above:

- Felix Draxler (felix.draxler at sap.com)

- Antonio Gomes Rodrigues (ra0077 at gmail.com)

- Graham Russell (graham at ham1.co.uk)

- Teemu Vesala (teemu.vesala at qentinel.com)

- Asier Lostalé (asier.lostale at openbravo.com)

- Thomas Peyrard (thomas.peyrard at murex.com)

- Benoit Wiart (b.wiart at ubik-ingenierie.com)

- Maxime Chassagneux (maxime.chassagneux at gmail.com)

- [Ubik Load Pack](http://ubikloadpack.com)

- Tamas Szabadi (tamas.szabadi at rightside.co)

- Roberto Braga (roberto.braga at soziale.it)

- jarek102 at gmail.com

- Wyatt Epp (wyatt.epp at gmail.com)

- Thomas Schapitz (ts-nospam12 at online.de)

We also thank bug reporters who helped us improve JMeter. 
For this release we want to give special thanks to the following reporters for the clear reports and tests made after our fixes:

Apologies if we have omitted anyone else.
 

 

### Known problems and workarounds

- The Once Only controller behaves correctly under a Thread Group or Loop Controller,
but otherwise its behaviour is not consistent (or clearly specified).

- 
The numbers that appear to the left of the green box are the number of active threads / total number of threads,
the total number of threads only applies to a locally run test, otherwise it will show `0` (see [Bug 55510](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=55510)).

- 
Note that there is a [bug in Java](http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6396599 )
on some Linux systems that manifests itself as the following error when running the test cases or JMeter itself:
```

 [java] WARNING: Couldn't flush user prefs:
 java.util.prefs.BackingStoreException:
 java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Not supported: indent-number

```

This does not affect JMeter operation. This issue is fixed since Java 7b05.

- 
Note that under some windows systems you may have this WARNING:
```

java.util.prefs.WindowsPreferences
WARNING: Could not open/create prefs root node Software\JavaSoft\Prefs at root 0
x80000002. Windows RegCreateKeyEx(&hellip;) returned error code 5.

```

The fix is to run JMeter as Administrator, it will create the registry key for you, then you can restart JMeter as a normal user and you won't have the warning anymore.

- 
With Oracle Java 7 and Mac Book Pro Retina Display, the JMeter GUI may look blurry.
This is a known Java bug, see Bug JDK-8000629.
A workaround is to use a Java 7 update 40 runtime which fixes this issue.

- 
You may encounter the following error:
```
java.security.cert.CertificateException: Certificates does not conform to algorithm constraints
```

 if you run a HTTPS request on a web site with a SSL certificate (itself or one of SSL certificates in its chain of trust) with a signature
 algorithm using MD2 (like md2WithRSAEncryption) or with a SSL certificate with a size lower than 1024 bits.
This error is related to increased security in Java 7 version u16 (MD2) and version u40 (Certificate size lower than 1024 bits), and Java 8 too.

To allow you to perform your HTTPS request, you can downgrade the security of your Java installation by editing
the Java `jdk.certpath.disabledAlgorithms` property. Remove the MD2 value or the constraint on size, depending on your case.

This property is in this file:
```
JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/java.security
```

See  [Bug 56357](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=56357) for details.

- 
Under Mac OSX Aggregate Graph will show wrong values due to mirroring effect on numbers.
This is due to a known Java bug, see Bug JDK-8065373
The fix is to use JDK7_u79, JDK8_u45 or later.

- 
View Results Tree may fail to display some HTML code under HTML renderer, see [Bug 54586](https://bz.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=54586).
This is due to a known Java bug which fails to parse "`px`" units in row/col attributes.
See Bug JDK-8031109
The fix is to use JDK9 b65 or later.

- 
JTable selection with keyboard (SHIFTup/down) is totally unusable with JAVA 7 on Mac OSX.
This is due to a known Java bug JDK-8025126
The fix is to use JDK 8 b132 or later.
